# mini-GNI

Sea-salt aerosol form in marine environments from breaking waves, white capping,
or bursting bubbles. They remain suspended in the air as tiny droplets and
affect visibility. These droplets, known as Giant Cloud Condensation Nuclei
(GCCN), are also hypothesized to play a role in cloud and precipitation
development. Measurements of GCCN are limited and primarily come from an
instrument that requires placement on an expensive research aircraft. This award
will allow for the development of a low-cost, 3D-printed instrument that can
make measurements of GCCN from kites and unmanned aircraft. The measurements
will help to resolve questions about the role of GCCN in the development of
clouds and precipitation, which will potentially make an impact on weather and
climate modeling. Students will be involved in the design and testing of the
system, providing them with hands-on research activities.

The research team plans to develop a new, low-cost instrument to measure GCCN.
GCCN are extremely efficient nuclei for condensation and rapid growth. Their
role in cloud development is still considered an unknown in the cloud physics
community. One hypotheses is that GCCN broaden the droplet spectrum and can
accelerate precipitation initiation in warm clouds. GCCN are traditionally
measured by exposing a microscope slide to the free air stream outside of an
aircraft. The research team will develop a miniaturized version of the Giant
Nucleus Impactor known as the mini-GNI that can be flown on kites or UASs. Kite
measurements are initially targeted due to their ability to perform Eularian
sampling at a consistent point over time. Also, multiple instruments can be
attached to kites with the option of measuring multiple altitudes. The mini-GNI
will be 3D-printed and run using a Raspberry Pi computer. The specific work
tasks include testing of the kite setup, the Raspberry Pi system, and the
complementary state variable measurements. The entire mini-GNI package will be
flown multiple times and the samples will be collected and analyzed.

## Resources
* [Modifying fans for wind speed measurement](fan_mods.html)
* [Adafruit Feather Hookup](hookup.html)
* [Calibrating fans as anemometers](anemometer_calibration.html)
